[CONTENT] Newsletter 103 - Late 2023 news (#119)
reactos/web-content: content/blogs/newsletter-103.md

---
title:       "Newsletter 103 - Late 2023 news"
author:      "GeoB99"
date:        2023-08-06
tags:        [ newsletter ]
---

Salutations from the ReactOS project team! On the previous newsletter we talked about the overall ReactOS releasing progress scheme and development status of the project.
We are attempting to make an effort on publishing regularly at least 3 newsletters per year, depending on how the development workflow goes.

> In this newsletter we will highlight some of the contributions by project developers and contributors alike as well as future plans and headlines.

Reviewer: Should this also have a short reference to the announcement we made about hiring Hermès?

## 0.4.15 release status

> On [102nd newsletter](/blogs/newsletter-102/) we talked about the ReactOS releasing situation and how we are tackling it in these current times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On [102nd newsletter](/blogs/newsletter-102/) we talked about the ReactOS release situation and how we are tackling it.
```

Despite our on-going effort and continuation for the project's development, lots of people have asked about what happened to 0.4.15 and if there will be such a release.
The answer to these questions is yes -- there will be 0.4.15 and it will be released. The 0.4.15 release has been long time delayed due to outstanding regressions and bugs.

> Most notably it was ([CORE-17624](https://jira.reactos.org/browse/CORE-17624)) that was long unfixed for some time after the soft rewrite of the Memory manager.

Reviewer 2: Uppercasing becase NTOS:MM is a component name.

While it has been hackfixed by ([#5630](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5630)) as a proper solution is yet to be worked on, it is one step closer to branch 0.4.15 for a candidate release.
There are still other minor regressions that need to be ironed out until 0.4.15 reaches the final stage for a release.

Due to development resources and manpower constraints we cannot give an exact estimation when 0.4.15 will be released to the general public but we will eventually get there. We are sorry for the inconvenience!

> In the meantime you can try [nightly builds](https://reactos.org/getbuilds) that pack up with latest bugfixes, new features and whatnot but expect also new bugs and such!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the meantime you can try [nightly builds](https://reactos.org/getbuilds) that are packed with the latest bugfixes, new features and whatnot but expect also new bugs and such!
```

## Kernel Debugger overhaul

> Historically, ReactOS was built with the GCC compiler, and to help with kernel development an in-built local kernel debugger, KDBG, was added. This debugger possesses its own set of commands and syntax, can understand only an in-house debugging-symbols format (“rossym”) – it does not support PDB. However, being a local debugger, it is able to interact with the user via a serial port connection or locally via screen display; input can be done either via serial or via keyboard (PS/2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, ReactOS was built with the GCC compiler, and to help with kernel development an in-built local kernel debugger (KDBG) was added.
This debugger possesses its own set of commands and syntax, can understand only an in-house debugging-symbols format (“rossym”) – it does not support PDB.
However, being a local debugger, it is able to interact with the user via a serial port connection or locally via screen display; input can be done either via serial or via keyboard (PS/2).
```

Later on, the possibility to compile ReactOS with MSVC was added, and with it too, support for the WinDbg debugger. Kernel debugging with WinDbg works by having a debugging stub (KD64, this is a similar idea to GDB) on the target, that is capable of manipulating the state of the OS, and having the actual debugger offloaded to a host computer.

> Hermès is working on improving the ReactOS' kernel debugger (KDBG) with new features and miscellaneous fixes so that it makes easier for developers and testers alike to reliably debug ReactOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermès BÉLUSCA - MAÏTO (HBelusca) is working on improving the ReactOS' kernel debugger (KDBG) with new features and miscellaneous fixes so that it makes easier for developers and testers alike to reliably debug ReactOS.
```

Since this is the first time mentioning Hermès

The following improvements are:
* Isolating terminal and input-related functionalities from the rest of KDBG ([#5188](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5188));
* Fixed an input buffer reading bug in `KdbpReadCommand()` and `KdReceivePacket()` routines ([#4914](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4914));
* Reworked the boot-phase initialization of KD and KDBG ([#4892](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4892));
* Moved the code handling of Dmesg buffer from screen provider to KDBG provider ([#5143](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5143));

Eventually the goal of this work is to have a terminal version of KDCOM and separate KDBG into a dedicated KDCOM-like extension DLL, such like `kdrosdbg.dll` (see ([#4600](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4600))).
All of this effort is further coordinated with Timo Kreuzer.

## UEFI Boot

> Thanks to the work of Timo Kreuzer (tkreuzer) our AMD64 is now capable of booting on an increasing number of hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the work of Timo Kreuzer (tkreuzer) our AMD64 build is now capable of booting on an increasing number of hardware.
```

> With this new step we now are able to look at booting on more modern devices, the first step of this transition being the support of UEFI Class 3 boot (Systems without a BIOS fallback).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this new step we are able to look at booting on more modern devices, the first step of this transition being the support of UEFI Class 3 boot (Systems without a BIOS fallback).
```

> With this new step we now are able to look at booting on more modern devices, the first step of this transition being the support of UEFI Class 3 boot (Systems without a BIOS fallback).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Thanks to Timo's work, we are working towards supporting modern devices with UEFI class 3 firmware.
```

> Work has been going on since the beginning of the year to transition freeloader our default bootloader for ReactOS to support UEFI on ARM32, ARM64, x86 and of course primarily; AMD64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work has been going on since the beginning of the year to transition freeloader (our default bootloader for ReactOS) to support UEFI on ARM32, ARM64, x86 and of course primarily; AMD64.
```

> Work has been going on since the beginning of the year to transition freeloader our default bootloader for ReactOS to support UEFI on ARM32, ARM64, x86 and of course primarily; AMD64.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Work has been underway since the beginning of the year to transition FreeLoader, our default bootloader for ReactOS, to support UEFI on ARM32, ARM64, x86 and of course: AMD64.
```

> Developer Hermès BÉLUSCA - MAÏTO (HBelusca) has been developing a system for passing the UEFI framebuffer information in a fashion that could be supported even under older systems bringing even XP to UEFI!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermès has been developing a system for passing the UEFI framebuffer information in a fashion that could be supported even under older systems bringing even XP to UEFI!
```

> Developer Hermès BÉLUSCA - MAÏTO (HBelusca) has been developing a system for passing the UEFI framebuffer information in a fashion that could be supported even under older systems bringing even XP to UEFI!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hermès has been developing a system for passing the UEFI framebuffer information in a fashion that allows Windows XP to run on UEFI systems, while Justin Miller (The_DarkFire_) has been developing the UEFI freeloader build.
```

> While developer Justin Miller (The_DarkFire_) has been developing the UEFI freeloader build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Justin Miller (The_DarkFire_) has been developing the UEFI freeloader build.
```

> On top of just supporting booting ReactOS some other features are being built such as a bootmgfw compatible disguised build of FreeLdr so modern Windows 11 systems can bootstrap FreeLdr easily as well as EFI chainloading giving boot management capabilities to our favorite bootloader.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On top of supporting booting ReactOS, other features are being built such as EFI chainloading and a bootmgfw compatible build of FreeLoader. These features would add boot management capabilities and allow modern Windows systems to bootstrap our favorite bootloader.
```

{{< gallery >}}

> {{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" caption="Running ReactOS on a Steam Deck" >}}

Reviewer 2: Could add here two pics of FreeLoader on ARM devices (Lumia 950XL - ARM64, and HTC HD2 - ARM32), as well as the picture of ReactOS FreeLdr entry available in Windows Boot Manager. - I could attach these pics here later.

{{< /gallery >}}

> **WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental, under heavy development and not yet ready for the general use. We currently cannot give an estimation as of when it will be done, so please stay tuned!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental, under heavy development and is not yet ready for the general use. We currently cannot give an estimate as to when it will be done, so please stay tuned!
```

## Shell improvements

> Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki) are extensively improving the Shell component of ReactOS to provide a better user experience and sleek interaction with the operating system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki) are extensively improving the Shell component of ReactOS to provide a better user experience with the operating system.
```

Notably Doug Lyons improved the toolbar icon display in MS Office 2000 and other programs, by fixing some bugs in the internal functions (`SetDIBitsToDevice` and `NtGdiSetDIBitsToDeviceInternal`).

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before.png" caption="BEFORE" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after.png" caption="AFTER" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

> Katayama improved the ZIP functionality support to allow the possibility to zip or unzip files or folders that have UTF-8 characters in them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Katayama improved the ZIP archive file support to allow zipping or unzipping files and folders that have UTF-8 characters in them.
```

> This will greatly help with the interoperability with other systems of different language settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will greatly help with the interoperability between systems with different language settings.
```

In addition to that, we can choose the code-page of ZIP compression/extraction by using the following registry key (`HKCU\Software\ReactOS:ZipCodePage / UnZipCodePage`).

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/utf8.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/utf8.png" caption="Extracting from a ZIP file that has Japanese characters on a Chinese locale system">}}
{{< /gallery >}}

> Katayama added a "Internet Browser" icon in the desktop workspace, which it will open the current and default web browser that is installed onto the computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Katayama added an "Internet Browser" icon in the desktop workspace, which it will open the current and default web browser that is installed onto the computer.
```

> Katayama added a "Internet Browser" icon in the desktop workspace, which it will open the current and default web browser that is installed onto the computer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Katayama added an "Internet Browser" icon in the desktop workspace, which will open the default web browser that is installed onto the computer.
```

In the future this icon can be hidden through Shell settings.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/internet.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/internet.png" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

> cbialorucki added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the Shell. This can help with people with visual impairments.

Reviewer: Here we start using a nickname to refer to someone instead of their actual first or last name, is that intentional?

> cbialorucki added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the Shell. This can help with people with visual impairments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Carl added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the Shell.
This could help people with visual impairments.
```

> cbialorucki added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the Shell. This can help with people with visual impairments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Carl added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the shell. This can help with people with visual impairments.
```

> This can be toggled through a registry key (`HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Advanced\TaskbarSmallIcons`) by setting a value of 0 (big icons) or 1 (small icons).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The feature can be toggled from the Taskbar Properties, or through a registry key (`HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Advanced\TaskbarSmallIcons`) by setting a value of 0 (big icons) or 1 (small icons).
```

Reviewer 3: I would use "This feature" rather than "The feature" but otherwise thanks for pointing this out. 👍

{{< gallery >}}

> {{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" caption="ROS taskbar with large icons">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" caption="ReactOS taskbar with large icons">}}
```

{{< /gallery >}}

> In addition, cbialorucki improved the balloon tooltip to better match the style and consistency with Windows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, Carl improved the balloon tooltip to better match the style and consistency with Windows.
```

> The previous balloon presented artifact issues and it could not display the full balloon text if it extended over the balloon boundary area.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous balloon presented artifact issues and could not display the full notification text if it extended over the balloon boundary area.
```

> Currently his work is still in progress and it can be tracked in ([this PR](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5559)).

Reviewer 2: This PR has been merged.
```suggestion
```

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before-balloon.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before-balloon.png" caption="BEFORE" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after-balloon.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after-balloon.png" caption="AFTER" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

> You can track most of his Shell related work ([here](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Acbialorucki+is%3Aclosed)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can track most of his Shell related work [here](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Acbialorucki+is%3Aclosed).
```

## Initial DirectX work-ground
Oleg Dubinskiy is working on squashing bugs that would not allow games to properly use the DirectX kernel subsystem (`dxg.sys` and `dxgkrnl.sys` respectively).

> More specifically he fixed some issues in the Win32 subsystem kernel backend (`Win32k.sys`) where DirectX was not loaded hence the impossibility of accessing its APIs for use ([#4551](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4551)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More specifically he fixed some issues in the Win32 subsystem kernel backend (`win32k.sys`) where DirectX was not loaded hence the impossibility of accessing its APIs for use ([#4551](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4551)).
```

> This fixes an issue where it was not possible to change the display mode in VMWare as it attempts to invoke the DirectDraw API to handle the display management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This fixes an issue where it was not possible to change the display mode in VMware as it attempts to invoke the DirectDraw API to handle the display management.
```

Along with it, he worked on implementing DirectDraw management code in display mode switch ([#4519](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4519)).
This improves the experience with games that are based upon DirectX stack.

> In the meantine Justin Miller is syncing up all of the DirectX DLLs with Wine up to the latest version ([#5688](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5688)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the meantime Justin Miller is syncing up all of the DirectX DLLs with Wine up to the latest version ([#5688](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5688)).
```

## NT6+ application compatibility preparations
A lot of applications that we take for granted, be it games, browsers, E-mail clients, utilities and such rely on newer APIs provided by Windows.

> NT6+ is terminology that encompasses Windows operating systems like Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10 and 11 that base on a newer NT architecture design -- NT 6.0 starting with Windows Vista.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NT6+ is terminology that encompasses Windows operating systems such as Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10 and 11 that are based on a newer NT architecture design.
```

> At API compatibility level ReactOS currently aims for Windows Server 2003 (of which NT release version is 5.2) that is the last iteration in the NT5 family of Windows operating systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the API compatibility level ReactOS currently aims for Windows Server 2003 (of which NT release version is 5.2) that is the last iteration in the NT5 family of Windows operating systems.
```

> At API compatibility level ReactOS currently aims for Windows Server 2003 (of which NT release version is 5.2) that is the last iteration in the NT5 family of Windows operating systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the API compatibility level, ReactOS currently aims for Windows Server 2003, which had an NT release version of 5.2; the last iteration in the NT5 family of Windows operating systems.
```

> As many software developers no longer support older versions of Windows, most of the applications that we use day to day will not be able to work on ReactOS. However this is going to change.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As many software developers no longer support older versions of Windows, most of the applications that we use day to day will not work on ReactOS. However, this is going to change.
```

> A group made up by Timo Kreuzer, Justin Miller, and other developers and contributors alike are bringing the effort on developing the necessary APIs for compatibility with modern programs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A group made up of Timo Kreuzer, Justin Miller, and other developers and contributors alike are developing the necessary APIs for compatibility with modern programs.
```

While Timo is still working on implementing a dynamic versioning system for DLLs ([#3239](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/3239)) that allows exporting of routines to applications depending on their compatibility settings, he has added the option to ReactOS bot builders to compile builds with NT6 exports which makes it possible to experiment with NT6+ application compatibility.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-nt6.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-nt6.png" caption="OBS 20.1 running on ReactOS (with some glitches)" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-stream.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-stream.png" caption="Streaming ReactOS running OBS 20.1" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

Keep in mind that while NT6+ compatibility support is still experimental, this only focuses on user mode support.

> NT6+ support for kernel mode such as kernel drivers, the kernel itself as well other system core functionalities at low level are an entirely different subject.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NT6+ support for kernel mode, such as kernel drivers, the kernel itself, as well as other low-level system core functionalities are an entirely different subject.
```

> While we do aim to reach this goal as well in the future, it would require a lot of time and development effort therefore we currently cannot give an estimation as of when it will be done.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While we do aim to reach this goal as well in the future, it would require a lot of time and development effort, therefore we currently cannot give an estimation as of when it will be done.
```

Reviewer 3: After this last line I would add a short conclusion that connects with reader. Something like:

"Thank you for your interest in the ReactOS project. We look forward to sharing more announcements and progress updates with you.

Sincerely,

The ReactOS Team"

---
title:       "Newsletter 103 - Late 2023 news"
author:      "GeoB99"
date:        2023-08-06
tags:        [ newsletter ]
---

> Salutations from the ReactOS project team! On the previous newsletter we talked about the overall ReactOS releasing progress scheme and development status of the project and the hiring of our long-term developer Hermès BÉLUSCA - MAÏTO (HBelusca).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Salutations from the ReactOS project team!
On the previous newsletter we talked about the overall ReactOS releasing progress scheme and development status of the project, as well as the hiring of our long-term developer Hermès Bélusca-Maïto (HBelusca).
```

---
title:       "Newsletter 103 - Late 2023 news"
author:      "GeoB99"
date:        2023-08-06
tags:        [ newsletter ]
---

Salutations from the ReactOS project team!
On the previous newsletter we talked about the overall ReactOS releasing progress scheme and development status of the project, as well as the hiring of our long-term developer Hermès Bélusca-Maïto (HBelusca).
We are attempting to make an effort on publishing regularly at least 3 newsletters per year, depending on how the development workflow goes.
In this newsletter we will highlight some of the contributions by project developers and contributors alike as well as future plans and headlines.

## 0.4.15 release status
On [102nd newsletter](/blogs/newsletter-102/) we talked about the ReactOS release situation and how we are tackling it.
Despite our on-going effort and continuation for the project's development, many people have asked about what happened to 0.4.15 and if there will be such a release.

> The answer to these questions is yes -- there will be 0.4.15 and it will be released. The 0.4.15 release has been long delayed due to outstanding regressions and bugs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The answer to these questions is yes -- there will be 0.4.15 and it will be released.
The 0.4.15 release has been long delayed due to outstanding regressions and bugs.
```

Most notably it was a regression which made it impossible [to copy files larger than the amount of RAM using Total Commander 9.12](https://jira.reactos.org/browse/CORE-17624), that was long unfixed for some time after the soft rewrite of the Memory Manager.

> While it has been hackfixed by [PR #5630](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5630), a proper solution is yet to be worked on. However, this brings us one step closer to releasing 0.4.15.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While it has been hackfixed by [PR #5630](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5630), a proper solution is yet to be worked on.
However, this brings us one step closer to releasing 0.4.15.
```

> Due to development resources and manpower constraints we cannot give an exact estimation when 0.4.15 will be released to the general public but we will eventually get there. We are sorry for the inconvenience!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to development resources and manpower constraints we cannot give an exact estimation when 0.4.15 will be released to the general public but we will eventually get there.
We are sorry for the inconvenience!
```

In the meantime you can try [nightly builds](/getbuilds) that are packed with the latest bugfixes, new features and whatnot but expect also new bugs and such!

## Kernel Debugger overhaul

> Historically, ReactOS was built with the GCC compiler. To help with kernel development, a local kernel debugger (KDBG) was developed. Unfortunately, KDBG could only understand an in-house debug symbol format that was incompatible with Microsoft's PDB format. Because KDBG was a local debugger, it was able to interact with the user via a serial port connection or locally via screen display. Input could be entered via serial or a PS/2 keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Historically, ReactOS was built with the GCC compiler.
To help with kernel development, a local kernel debugger (KDBG) was developed.
Unfortunately, KDBG could only understand an in-house debug symbol format that was incompatible with Microsoft's PDB format.
Because KDBG was a local debugger, it was able to interact with the user via a serial port connection or locally via screen display.
Input could be entered via serial or a PS/2 keyboard.
```

> Later on, the possibility to compile ReactOS with MSVC was added, and with it, support for the WinDbg debugger. Kernel debugging with WinDbg works by having a debugging stub on the target which is capable of manipulating the state of the OS. The actual debugger is offloaded to a host computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Later on, the possibility to compile ReactOS with MSVC was added, and with it, support for the WinDbg debugger.
Kernel debugging with WinDbg works by having a debugging stub on the target which is capable of manipulating the state of the OS.
The actual debugger is offloaded to a host computer.
```

* Moved the code handling of Dmesg buffer from screen provider to KDBG provider ([#5143](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5143));

The goal of this work is to have a terminal version of KDCOM and separate KDBG into a dedicated KDCOM-like extension DLL, such as `kdrosdbg.dll` (see [#4600](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4600)).
All of this effort is further coordinated with Timo Kreuzer.

## UEFI Boot
Thanks to the work of Timo Kreuzer (tkreuzer) our AMD64 build is now capable of booting on an increasing number of hardware.
Thanks to Timo's work, we are working towards supporting modern devices with UEFI class 3 firmware.
Work has been underway since the beginning of the year to transition FreeLoader, our default bootloader for ReactOS, to support UEFI on ARM32, ARM64, x86 and of course: AMD64.
Hermès has been developing a system for passing the UEFI framebuffer information in a fashion that allows Windows XP to run on UEFI systems, while Justin Miller (The_DarkFire_) has been developing the UEFI freeloader build.
While Justin Miller (The_DarkFire_) has been developing the UEFI freeloader build.

> On top of supporting booting ReactOS, other features are being built such as EFI chainloading and a bootmgfw compatible build of FreeLoader. These features would add boot management capabilities and allow modern Windows systems to bootstrap our favorite bootloader.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On top of supporting booting ReactOS, other features are being built such as EFI chainloading and a bootmgfw compatible build of FreeLoader.
These features would add boot management capabilities and allow modern Windows systems to bootstrap our favorite bootloader.
```

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" caption="Running ReactOS on a Steam Deck" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/htc_hd2.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/htc_hd2.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a HTC HD2" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/lumia950xl.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/lumia950xl.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a Lumia 950XL" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/bootmgfw_freeldr.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/bootmgfw_freeldr.png" caption="ReactOS FreeLoader boot entry shown in Windows Boot Manager in a Framework laptop" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/apple.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/apple.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a Apple iPhone 5c" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

It's worth noting that FreeLoader runs natively on the aforementioned phones, without emulators of any kind.

> **WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental, under heavy development and is not yet ready for the general use. We currently cannot give an estimate as to when it will be done, so please stay tuned!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental, under heavy development and is not yet ready for the general use.
We currently cannot give an estimate as to when it will be done, so please stay tuned!
```

{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after.png" caption="AFTER" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

Katayama improved the ZIP archive file support to allow zipping or unzipping files and folders that have UTF-8 characters in them.
This will greatly help with the interoperability between systems with different language settings.
In addition to that, we can choose the code-page of ZIP compression/extraction by using the following registry key (`HKCU\Software\ReactOS:ZipCodePage / UnZipCodePage`).

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/utf8.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/utf8.png" caption="Extracting from a ZIP file that has Japanese characters on a Chinese locale system">}}
{{< /gallery >}}

Katayama added an "Internet Browser" icon in the desktop workspace, which will open the default web browser that is installed onto the computer.
In the future this icon can be hidden through Shell settings.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/internet.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/internet.png" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

> Carl added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the shell. This can help with people with visual impairments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Carl added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the shell.
This can help with people with visual impairments.
```

This fixes an issue where it was not possible to change the display mode in VMware as it attempts to invoke the DirectDraw API to handle the display management.
Along with it, he worked on implementing DirectDraw management code in display mode switch ([#4519](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4519)).
This improves the experience with games that are based upon DirectX stack.

In the meantime Justin Miller is syncing up all of the DirectX DLLs with Wine up to the latest version ([#5688](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5688)).

## NT6+ application compatibility preparations
A lot of applications that we take for granted, be it games, browsers, E-mail clients, utilities and such rely on newer APIs provided by Windows.
NT6+ is a terminology that encompasses Windows operating systems such as Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10 and 11 that are based on a newer NT architecture design.
At the API compatibility level, ReactOS currently aims for Windows Server 2003, which had an NT release version of 5.2; the last iteration in the NT5 family of Windows operating systems.

> As many software developers no longer support older versions of Windows, most of the applications that we use day to day will not work on ReactOS. However, this is going to change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As many software developers no longer support older versions of Windows, most of the applications that we use day to day will not work on ReactOS.
However, this is going to change.
```

---
title:       "Newsletter 103 - Late 2023 news"
author:      "GeoB99"
date:        2023-08-06
tags:        [ newsletter ]
---

Salutations from the ReactOS project team!

> In the previous newsletter we talked about the overall ReactOS releasing progress scheme and development status of the project, as well as the hiring of our long-term developer Hermès Bélusca-Maïto (HBelusca).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous posts we talked about the overall ReactOS releasing progress scheme and development status of the project, as well as the hiring of our long-term developer Hermès Bélusca-Maïto (HBelusca).
```
(since the hiring is not part of the previous newsletter)

## Kernel Debugger overhaul
Historically, ReactOS was built with the GCC compiler.
To help with kernel development, a local kernel debugger (KDBG) was developed.
Unfortunately, KDBG could only understand an in-house debug symbol format that was incompatible with Microsoft's PDB format.
Because KDBG was a local debugger, it was able to interact with the user via a serial port connection or locally via screen display.
Input could be entered via serial or a PS/2 keyboard.

Later on, the possibility to compile ReactOS with MSVC was added, and with it, support for the WinDbg debugger.
Kernel debugging with WinDbg works by having a debugger stub on the target which is capable of manipulating the state of the OS, while the actual debugger is offloaded to a host computer.

Based on work from previous developers (Hervé Poussineau and Timo Kreuzer), Hermès is updating KDBG with new features and bug fixes to make it easier for developers and testers alike to reliably debug ReactOS.
Improvements for KDBG include:
* Isolating terminal and input-related functionalities from the rest of KDBG ([#5188](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5188));

> * Fixed an input buffer reading bug in `KdbpReadCommand()` and `KdReceivePacket()` routines ([#4914](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4914));

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fixing an input buffer reading bug in `KdbpReadCommand()` and `KdReceivePacket()` routines ([#4914](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4914));
```

> * Reworked the boot-phase initialization of KD and KDBG ([#4892](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4892));

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Reworked the boot-phase initialization of KD and KDBG ([#4892](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4892));
```
```suggestion
* Reworking the boot-phase initialization of KD and KDBG ([#4892](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4892));
```

> * Moved the code handling of Dmesg buffer from screen provider to KDBG provider ([#5143](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5143));

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Moving the code handling of Dmesg buffer from screen provider to KDBG provider ([#5143](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5143));
```

The goal of this work is to have a terminal version of KDCOM and separate KDBG into a dedicated KDCOM-like extension DLL, such as `kdrosdbg.dll` (see [#4600](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4600)).

> All of this effort is further coordinated with Timo Kreuzer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All of this effort is further coordinated with the help of Timo Kreuzer.
```

## UEFI Boot

> Thanks to the work of Timo Kreuzer (tkreuzer) our AMD64 builds is now capable of booting on an increasing number of hardware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to the work of Timo Kreuzer (tkreuzer) our AMD64 builds are now capable of booting on an increasing number of hardware.
```

> Thanks to Timo's and Jusin's work, we are working towards supporting modern devices with UEFI class 3 firmware.

Reviewer 2: `Jusin => Justin` (but it's too late)

> Work has been underway since the beginning of the year to transition FreeLoader, our default bootloader for ReactOS, to support UEFI on x86, AMD64 and as well, on ARM32, ARM64.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Work has been underway since the beginning of the year to transition FreeLoader, our default bootloader for ReactOS, to support UEFI on x86 and AMD64, as well as ARM32 and ARM64.
```

These features would add boot management capabilities and allow modern Windows systems to bootstrap our favorite bootloader.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" caption="Running ReactOS on a Steam Deck" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/htc_hd2.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/htc_hd2.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a HTC HD2" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/lumia950xl.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/lumia950xl.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a Lumia 950XL" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/bootmgfw_freeldr.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/bootmgfw_freeldr.png" caption="ReactOS FreeLoader boot entry shown in Windows Boot Manager in a Framework laptop" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/apple.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/apple.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a Apple iPhone 5c" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

It's worth noting that FreeLoader runs natively on the aforementioned phones, without emulators of any kind.

> **WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental, under heavy development and is not yet ready for the general use and also it's not currently completely present in our main respository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental and under heavy development. It is not yet ready for general use and is not currently present in our main repository.
```

We currently cannot give an estimate as to when it will be done, so please stay tuned!

## Shell improvements
Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ (katahiromz) and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki) are extensively improving the Shell component of ReactOS to provide a better user experience with the operating system.
Notably Doug Lyons improved the toolbar icon display in MS Office 2000 and other programs, by fixing some bugs in the internal functions (`SetDIBitsToDevice` and `NtGdiSetDIBitsToDeviceInternal`).

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before.png" caption="BEFORE" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after.png" caption="AFTER" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

> Katayama improved the ZIP archive file support to allow zipping or unzipping files and folders that have UTF-8 characters in them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Katayama improved ZIP archive file support to allow zipping or unzipping files and folders that have UTF-8 characters in them.
```

This can help with people with visual impairments.
This feature can be toggled from Taskbar Properties, or through a registry key (`HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Advanced\TaskbarSmallIcons`) by setting a value of 0 (big icons) or 1 (small icons).

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" caption="ReactOS taskbar with large icons">}}
{{< /gallery >}}

In addition, Carl improved the balloon tooltip to better match the style and consistency with Windows.
The previous balloon presented artifact issues and could not display the full notification text if it extended over the balloon boundary area.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before-balloon.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before-balloon.png" caption="BEFORE" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after-balloon.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after-balloon.png" caption="AFTER" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

You can track most of his Shell related work [here](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Acbialorucki+is%3Aclosed).

> ## Initial DirectX work-ground

Reviewer: `ground-work` instead of work-ground

> Oleg Dubinskiy is working on squashing bugs that disallow games to properly use the DirectX kernel subsystem (`dxg.sys`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Oleg Dubinskiy is working on squashing bugs that prevented games from using the DirectX kernel subsystem (`dxg.sys`).
```

> More specifically he fixed some issues in the Win32 subsystem kernel backend (`win32k.sys`) where DirectX was not loaded hence the impossibility of accessing its APIs for use ([#4551](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4551)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More specifically he fixed some issues in the Win32 subsystem kernel backend (`win32k.sys`) where DirectX was not loaded, hence why programs were not able to access DirectX APIs properly ([#4551](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4551)).
```

> This fixes an issue where it was not possible to change the display mode in VMware as it attempts to invoke the DirectDraw API to handle the display management.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This also fixes an issue where it was not possible to change the display mode in VMware as it attempts to invoke the DirectDraw API to handle display management.
```

Along with it, he worked on implementing DirectDraw management code in display mode switch ([#4519](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4519)).
This improves the experience with games that are based upon DirectX stack.

In the meantime Justin Miller is syncing up all of the DirectX DLLs with Wine up to the latest version ([#5688](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5688)).

## NT6+ application compatibility preparations

> A lot of applications that we take for granted, be it games, browsers, E-mail clients, utilities and such rely on newer APIs provided by Windows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A lot of applications that we take for granted, be it games, browsers, E-mail clients, utilities and more, rely on newer APIs provided by Windows.
```

At the API compatibility level, ReactOS currently aims for Windows Server 2003, which had an NT release version of 5.2; the last iteration in the NT5 family of Windows operating systems.
NT6+ is a terminology that encompasses Windows operating systems such as Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10 and 11 that are based on a newer NT architecture design.

As many software developers no longer support older versions of Windows, most of the applications that we use day to day will not work on ReactOS.
However, this is going to change.
A group made up of Timo Kreuzer, Justin Miller, and other developers and contributors alike are developing the necessary APIs for compatibility with modern programs.

> While Timo is still working on implementing a dynamic versioning system for DLLs ([#3239](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/3239)) that allows exporting of routines to applications depending on their compatibility settings, he has added the option to ReactOS bot builders to compile builds with NT6 exports which makes it possible to experiment with NT6+ application compatibility.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While Timo is still working on implementing a dynamic versioning system for DLLs ([#3239](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/3239)) that allows exporting of routines to applications depending on their compatibility settings, he has added the option for ReactOS bot builders to compile builds with NT6 exports which makes it possible to experiment with NT6+ application compatibility.
```

---
title:       "Newsletter 103 - Late 2023 news"
author:      "GeoB99"

> date:        2023-08-06

Author: I will update the date once the newsletter is ready to be pushed to master, I mean that should be self-explanatory isn't it?

Due to development resources and manpower constraints we cannot give an exact estimation when 0.4.15 will be released to the general public but we will eventually get there.
We are sorry for the inconvenience!
In the meantime you can try [nightly builds](/getbuilds) that are packed with the latest bugfixes, new features and whatnot but expect also new bugs and such!

## Kernel Debugger overhaul
Historically, ReactOS was built with the GCC compiler.
To help with kernel development, a local kernel debugger (KDBG) was developed.
Unfortunately, KDBG could only understand an in-house debug symbol format that was incompatible with Microsoft's PDB format.
Because KDBG was a local debugger, it was able to interact with the user via a serial port connection or locally via screen display.
Input could be entered via serial or a PS/2 keyboard.

Later on, the possibility to compile ReactOS with MSVC was added, and with it, support for the WinDbg debugger.
Kernel debugging with WinDbg works by having a debugging stub on the target which is capable of manipulating the state of the OS.
The actual debugger is offloaded to a host computer.

> Hermès is updating KDBG with new features and bug fixes to make it easier for developers and testers alike to reliably debug ReactOS.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion regarding the fact this work has been based also on what @hpoussin and @tkreuzer have done (are you guys OK with mentioning that?)
```suggestion
Based on work from previous developers (Hervé Poussineau and Timo Kreuzer), Hermès is updating KDBG with new features and bug fixes to make it easier for developers and testers alike to reliably debug ReactOS.
```

> Improvements by Hermès for KDBG include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Improvements for KDBG include:
```

* Isolating terminal and input-related functionalities from the rest of KDBG ([#5188](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5188));
* Fixed an input buffer reading bug in `KdbpReadCommand()` and `KdReceivePacket()` routines ([#4914](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4914));
* Reworked the boot-phase initialization of KD and KDBG ([#4892](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4892));
* Moved the code handling of Dmesg buffer from screen provider to KDBG provider ([#5143](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5143));

The goal of this work is to have a terminal version of KDCOM and separate KDBG into a dedicated KDCOM-like extension DLL, such as `kdrosdbg.dll` (see [#4600](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4600)).
All of this effort is further coordinated with Timo Kreuzer.

## UEFI Boot

> Thanks to the work of Timo Kreuzer (tkreuzer) our AMD64 build is now capable of booting on an increasing number of hardware.

Reviewer 4: or: "our AMD64 builds" ?

Reviewer 2: Indeed, it's either "AMD64 port" or "AMD64 builds".

> Thanks to Timo's work, we are working towards supporting modern devices with UEFI class 3 firmware.

Reviewer 4: Timo ? or Justin as well?

> Work has been underway since the beginning of the year to transition FreeLoader, our default bootloader for ReactOS, to support UEFI on ARM32, ARM64, x86 and of course: AMD64.

Reviewer 4: I would suggest to place x86 and AMD64 first in this enumeration, and then say, "and as well, on ARM32, ARM64"

Reviewer 2: Double that, the same suggestion was initially posted here by me. :)

Hermès has been developing a system for passing the UEFI framebuffer information in a fashion that allows Windows XP to run on UEFI systems, while Justin Miller (The_DarkFire_) has been developing the UEFI freeloader build.

> On top of supporting booting ReactOS, other features are being built such as EFI chainloading and a bootmgfw compatible build of FreeLoader.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
On top of supporting booting ReactOS, other features are being built such as EFI chainloading and a bootmgfw-compatible build of FreeLoader.
```
What you call "bootmgfw-compatible build of FreeLoader" is a build of FreeLoader that can be started as a build application by the Windows Boot Manager ("bootmgfw"). I think this might be reworded in that way instead.

These features would add boot management capabilities and allow modern Windows systems to bootstrap our favorite bootloader.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/uefi.png" caption="Running ReactOS on a Steam Deck" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/htc_hd2.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/htc_hd2.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a HTC HD2" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/lumia950xl.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/lumia950xl.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a Lumia 950XL" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/bootmgfw_freeldr.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/bootmgfw_freeldr.png" caption="ReactOS FreeLoader boot entry shown in Windows Boot Manager in a Framework laptop" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/apple.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/apple.png" caption="Running FreeLoader on a Apple iPhone 5c" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

It's worth noting that FreeLoader runs natively on the aforementioned phones, without emulators of any kind.

> **WARNING:** UEFI support in ReactOS is experimental, under heavy development and is not yet ready for the general use.

Reviewer 4: Also it's not currently completely present in our main repository.

We currently cannot give an estimate as to when it will be done, so please stay tuned!

## Shell improvements

> Doug Lyons, Katayama Hirofumi MZ and Carl Bialorucki (cbialorucki) are extensively improving the Shell component of ReactOS to provide a better user experience with the operating system.

Reviewer 4: Adding the nickname only for Carl ?

{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/internet.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/internet.png" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

Carl added support for large taskbar icons in the Explorer component of the shell.
This can help with people with visual impairments.
This feature can be toggled from Taskbar Properties, or through a registry key (`HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Advanced\TaskbarSmallIcons`) by setting a value of 0 (big icons) or 1 (small icons).

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/large.png" caption="ReactOS taskbar with large icons">}}
{{< /gallery >}}

In addition, Carl improved the balloon tooltip to better match the style and consistency with Windows.
The previous balloon presented artifact issues and could not display the full notification text if it extended over the balloon boundary area.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before-balloon.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/before-balloon.png" caption="BEFORE" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after-balloon.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/after-balloon.png" caption="AFTER" >}}

> {{< /gallery >}}

Reviewer 4: Note: a similar comment may be made there as well:
![image](https://github.com/reactos/web-content/assets/1969829/da3b6a3f-fa49-4406-9ba6-b0fa087f31c9)

and whether it could be tweaked so as it shows similarly to that:
![image](https://github.com/reactos/web-content/assets/1969829/10ad0f84-a503-4686-b274-f6b4f7fb52ec)

You can track most of his Shell related work [here](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Acbialorucki+is%3Aclosed).

## Initial DirectX work-ground

> Oleg Dubinskiy is working on squashing bugs that would not allow games to properly use the DirectX kernel subsystem (`dxg.sys` and `dxgkrnl.sys` respectively).

Reviewer 4: "would not allow" ~~> I mean, if these bugs are there, they are very certainly not allowing games to properly work, that's for sure.
So,
```suggestion
Oleg Dubinskiy is working on squashing bugs that disallow games to properly use the DirectX kernel subsystem (`dxg.sys` and `dxgkrnl.sys` respectively).
```

Reviewer 4: Side-question (for @DarkFire01 ) : isn't dxgkrnl.sys an NT6+ thing?
Because it's not clear from the existing text.

More specifically he fixed some issues in the Win32 subsystem kernel backend (`win32k.sys`) where DirectX was not loaded hence the impossibility of accessing its APIs for use ([#4551](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4551)).

This fixes an issue where it was not possible to change the display mode in VMware as it attempts to invoke the DirectDraw API to handle the display management.
Along with it, he worked on implementing DirectDraw management code in display mode switch ([#4519](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/4519)).
This improves the experience with games that are based upon DirectX stack.

In the meantime Justin Miller is syncing up all of the DirectX DLLs with Wine up to the latest version ([#5688](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/5688)).

## NT6+ application compatibility preparations
A lot of applications that we take for granted, be it games, browsers, E-mail clients, utilities and such rely on newer APIs provided by Windows.

> NT6+ is a terminology that encompasses Windows operating systems such as Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10 and 11 that are based on a newer NT architecture design.

Reviewer 4: What about moving this sentence after the next one, instead?

As many software developers no longer support older versions of Windows, most of the applications that we use day to day will not work on ReactOS.
However, this is going to change.
A group made up of Timo Kreuzer, Justin Miller, and other developers and contributors alike are developing the necessary APIs for compatibility with modern programs.
While Timo is still working on implementing a dynamic versioning system for DLLs ([#3239](https://github.com/reactos/reactos/pull/3239)) that allows exporting of routines to applications depending on their compatibility settings, he has added the option to ReactOS bot builders to compile builds with NT6 exports which makes it possible to experiment with NT6+ application compatibility.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-nt6.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-nt6.png" caption="OBS 20.1 running on ReactOS (with some glitches)" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-stream.png" src="/img/blogs/newsletter-103/obs-stream.png" caption="Streaming ReactOS running OBS 20.1" >}}

> {{< /gallery >}}

Reviewer 4: Weird, but the last image shows shortened compared to what it could be:
![image](https://github.com/reactos/web-content/assets/1969829/17af9a7c-26c1-4f1a-850a-21652dc006e5)

I wonder whether it's posible to tweak this gallery/figure thing in order to make it show something like that instead:
![image](https://github.com/reactos/web-content/assets/1969829/40cdb77a-1fc4-4e5d-a209-8fd89c8b813b)

Reviewer 2: This has to be tweaked in the CSS styles somehow.
